10 Celebrities You Didn’t Realize Were In
Star Trek
10.
Jim O’Heir
Much loved for his portrayal of bumbling civil
servant Jerry Gergich in the NBC comedy Parks
and Recreation, veteran character actor Jim
O’Heir is also a member of the enormous
Star Trek family.
O’Heir (whose Parks co-star Chris Pratt
auditioned for the role of Kirk in the re-launched
Star Trek movie series) donned a plastic forehead
to become a member of the Jye, a humanoid
species of the Delta Quadrant in the Star
Trek: Voyager episode Critical Care.
Though unnamed, O’Heir’s character had
an interesting story arc within the episode.
His character was betrayed by the episode’s
antagonist Gar (who had an affair with his
wife).
Though O’Heir’s appearance was little
more than background dressing, for fans of
Parks and Recreation, his brief and unheralded
appearance is sure to make them smile.
9.
Seth MacFarlane
The man behind Family Guy and Ted is famous
for his love of Star Wars, which has seeped
over into his hit animated show on numerous
occasions.
However, Seth MacFarlane is also a huge fan
of the Star Trek franchise as evidenced by
his appearance in two episodes of Star Trek:
Enterprise.
In seasons three and four of Enterprise MacFarlane
appeared as Rivers, a Starfleet engineer.
Rivers remained in the background, but MacFarlane’s
presence was felt elsewhere in the series.
The Enterprise character Ensign MacFarlane,
who appeared in the episode The Xindi, was
named for the famous cartoonist.
Keen fans of Family Guy would also note that
MacFarlane reveals his fandom for Star Trek
with a multitude of scenes parodying the original
series, as well as The Next Generation.
After all, the fact that Patrick Stewart has
been so prominently featured in McFarlane’s
work isn’t just due to the fact that Stewart
is awesome; it’s because MacFarlane is an
enormous fanboy.
Who says you can only love Star Wars or Star
Trek?
8.
Bryan Singer
Few directors have influenced modern science
fiction more than Bryan Singer.
The director of X-men, X2, X-Men: Days of
Future Past, and Superman Returns is a well
known super-fan of Star Trek.
Seeking to mix business with pleasure, Singer
has been trying to bring a new incarnation
of Star Trek back to television.
As famous fans of the series often are, Singer
was offered the chance to appear in the franchise.
In the 2002 movie Star Trek Nemesis Singer
appeared as a tactical officer aboard the
USS Enterprise-E, commanded by Captain Jean
Luc Picard (played by Patrick Stewart, who
– as Dr. Charles Xavier – Singer has directed
on multiple occasions within the wildly successful
X-Men franchise).
7.
Joan Collins
Iconic diva Joan Collins achieved critical
acclaim for her work in film, theatre, television,
and literature.
However, the Dynasty star is also remembered
for making guest appearances in the biggest
TV shows of the 60s and 70s, including Batman,
Mission: Impossible, and Star Trek: The Original
Series.
On April 6, 1967 The City on the Edge of Forever
aired for the first time, it was the 28th
episode of Star Trek to ever be shown on television.
The episode focuses on Dr. McCoy, who is transported
back into the 1930s forcing his crew members
into a delicate rescue mission.
In 1930s New York McCoy meets Edith Keeler,
a social worker running a soup-kitchen, played
by the legendary Collins.
The episode is remembered as one of, if not
the, best episodes in the original series.
For her contribution to an episode which lives
on as a favourite to many, Collins’ cameo
must certainly be considered one of the greatest
ever in the franchise.
6.
Tom Morello
Founding member of Grammy Award-Winning band
Rage Against The Machine, Tom Morello is frequently
listed as one of the most influential guitarists
to ever pick up the instrument.
It would be surprising to many, including
legions of “Rage” fans, that Morello appeared
twice within the Star Trek franchise.
In 1998 Morello appeared in the feature film
Star Trek: Insurrection.
He played a Son’a officer, the Son’a being
the antagonists to the crew of the Enterprise.
In 2000 Morello appeared as a Starfleet crewmember
in season six of Star Trek: Voyager, in the
episode Good Shepherd.
The episode featured Captain Janeway taking
a hands-on approach with the tutelage of a
trio of underperforming crew members.
Though Morello’s performances may have been
missed by most, he did manage to get a line
in on Voyager, instructing the enigmatic Captain
Janeway that her desired destination was,
“to the left, ma’am”.
5.
King Abdullah bin Al-Hussein
For many reasons, it’s good to be the king.
King of Jordan, Abdullah II bin al-Hussein,
who is a huge fan of Star Trek, was thrilled
to be offered the chance to tour the set of
Star Trek: Voyager in 1996.
Much to the Royal’s surprise, he was offered
the chance to appear in the background of
the show, which he accepted immediately.
King Abdullah played a science officer in
the opening of the season two episode Investigations.
Many would think pretending to be a member
of a Starfleet would be a stretch for the
monarch.
However, King Abdullah is more than familiar
with military matters.
The King is a graduate of the British Royal
Military Academy who served as a Second Lieutenant
in the Royal Hussars.
In Jordan, he served as a member of the 40th
Armored Brigade and the Royal Jordanian Air
Force as a cobra attack helicopter pilot.
4.
Mick Fleetwood
Mick Fleetwood, of Fleetwood Mac fame, had
perhaps the strangest cameo ever witnessed
in the Star Trek universe.
Manhunt, from season two of Star Trek: The
Next Generation, featured ship counselor Deanna
Troi’s mother Lwaxana (played by Gene Rodenberry’s
then-wife), searching for a mate on the Starship
Enterprise.
Among the pool of unsuspecting bachelors is
a highly uncomfortable Captain Picard.
During the episode, Fleetwood appears briefly
as an Antedean dignitary.
However, despite Fleetwood getting a close-up,
even his most dedicated fans would have missed
him entirely were they not clued in.
Fleetwood, an enormous fan of Star Trek himself,
was given a costume that included a huge fish-like
headpiece that rendered him completely unrecognizable.
The hilarious wardrobe and unique cameo added
to what lives on as one of TNG’s most lighthearted
and charming episodes.
3.
Stephen Hawking
Stephen Hawking, owner of one of the most
brilliant minds in recorded history, has influenced
the Star Trek franchise in a myriad of ways.
The scientist’s research into space, and
particularly black holes, has provided ample
fodder for the writers of Star Trek and many
other sci-fi series and movies.
Hawking has many achievements to be proud
of.
One of the least important accomplishments
of Hawking, which is still pretty cool, is
that he is the only person to play himself
in the Star Trek franchise.
In the sixth season of Star Trek: The Next
Generation, Hawking appeared in the episode
Descent.
In the episode chief science officer Data
sought scientific advice from the holographs
of Isaac Newton, Albert Einstein, and Stephen
Hawking – over a game of poker.
Hawking was also honored in the franchise
by having a shuttlecraft named after him,
which appeared in The Next Generation series
as well as the movie Star Trek Generations.
2.
Iggy Pop
Unlike most celebrity cameos, when punk rock
icon Iggy Pop appeared in the Star Trek: Deep
Space Nine episode The Magnificent Ferengi,
he wasn’t relegated to the background or
protected from challenging scenes and dialogue.
Iggy – a sci-fi nut at heart – played
Yelgrun, a Vorta clone, whose role within
the evil Dominion was to coax and convince
other races into servitude.
Iggy’s Yelgren featured in an entertaining
game of cat-and-mouse with everyone’s favourite
Ferengi: Quark.
Yelgrun and Quark faced off in negotiations
over a prisoner exchange (with one prisoner
being Quark’s mother Ishka).
Quark would eventually best Yelgrun, with
Iggy’s character ending up in Starfleet
custody.
Iggy’s turn on DS9 can be considered one
of the greatest ever cameos on Star Trek thanks
to the importance placed on his character,
as well as the acting chops the singer brought
to the table.
1.
Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson
Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson is well-known
for being a movie mega star, professional
wrestling icon, and owner of an Instagram
account you need to follow.
However, most people have no idea that Johnson
is also an alum of the Star Trek universe.
“The People’s Champion” surprised both
Star Trek and wrestling fans in 2000 when
he appeared in Tsunkatse, an episode from
season six of Star Trek: Voyager.
In the episode Johnson played to his strengths,
portraying a pit-fighting champion from the
planet Pendari.
Johnson’s Pendari character battled popular
crew member Seven of Nine (a reformed Borg)
during the Tsunkatse fighting tournament.
After an epic duel, Johnson’s Pendari was
victorious, thanks to some signature pro-wrestling
moves.
Johnson’s guest appearance remains one of
the most special cameos to occur in the franchise,
given the incredible success Johnson has achieved
since his stint in the delta quadrant.